---
template: BlogPost
path: /with-code
date: 2020-02-20T15:08:12.174Z
title: Window Shopping - Domain Names
metaDescription: domain names
thumbnail: /assets/artem-gavrysh-F6-U5fGAOik-unsplash.jpg
---
While I dread writing my 1st ever blog, here I write about our experiences and some tips searching for domain names. Though we've been looking for domain names on and off, it has become our (my husband's and my) favourite weekend activity for the last few years (yes, it's a thing 😉).

Every time we see a nice name on ProductHunt or some where, it sparks a light. 

Mostly 'dot com' domains having a lot of attention and all the meaningful names being take away, its hard to get a catchy one. That's when the struggle and admiration for nice sensible names started. We own a few domain names, some of which are being used and some are just waiting for their turn. My husband considers them as 'valuable assets' 😃.

After all these years of experience in buying domain names, here is a list of rules we follow to get a good domain name:

* Purpose - what would you do with the website
* Words - Choose the right words that describe the purpose. Make sure to look up for easy words.
* Radio Check - Say the word loud. Can the listeners spell it correctly with minimal help?
* Lesser Syllables - Its easy to remember domain names with few syllables.
* Special Characters - Avoid them. But occasionally hyphens '-' are used in domain names.
* Lastly look for the correct domain extension. Not always do we need a 'dot com' to make a hit.

  Some domain names have numbers used in them. People have mixed opinions about using numbers. Some times you get lucky and stand out too, for using numbers. 

  Eg: 4700bcpopcorn.com, 1mb.site 

  Also its important to remember that the domain name should explain itself. The fact that one is explaining the meaning of the domain name shows that name doesn't justify its purpose. 

I'll write another post explaining what domain extensions mean what and how to select one.

Happy Domain Names shopping.
